# 1998


## The problem with dense mode protocols

becomes obvious when MBone is flooded with tens of gigabits of traffic during
a Internet2 member meeting in San Francisco.

<div class="notes">
"Everyone is interested",
DDos is a feature,
shutting down links makes new ones pop up elsewhere.
</div>

. . .

Engineers start rolling out *PIM-SM* in response.


## PIM-SM

*Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode*

. . .

Uses (like PIM-DM) the underlying unicast routing table,
but introduces the concept of a rendezvous point (RP), or core,
and requires goup members to send explicit join messages.

--------

Building the receiver tree:

> * A RP is configured for each group
>     * Groups may share RP, but each group can only have one
>     * RPs must be discovered by all routers through a bootstrap protocol
> * Receivers send join messages to the RP.
>     * Forwarding state is created at each router between the RP & source
>     * This forms a reverse shortest path three rooted at the RP

--------

Sending data:

> * Each source initially sends multicast data through a unicast tunnel to the RP ("register" packets)
> * If the RP have forwarding state for the group (ie receivers), data is forwarded down the tree
> * If not, the RP may tell the source to stop transmitting
> * In addition, the RP may request multicast data (without tunneling) from the source.


## CBT

*Core Based Trees*

. . .

Similar to PIM-SM, but:

. . .

Uses a single tree for all groups, resulting in less state to maintain at the
cost of less optimal trees.

. . .

The tree is bidirectional, meaning that traffic from source to rp can be
sent down the tree by any node.
This avoids the same packets traveling in both directions at the cost of
slightly higher complexity.
